what is up everybody welcome to another
edition of AMA live I'm your host Tom
bill you and I'm gonna be taking your
questions today and it is going to be an
immeasurable amount of fun and enjoyment
this is gonna be fantastic and by the
way for those of you that don't know we
just launched our newest show called
health theory please go check it out
that's on YouTube it launched this
morning at 7:30 a.m. PST
and I'm super stoked on this show 1
because if you really want to optimize
your mind you've got to eat right you've
got to exercise I wish it weren't so I
wish you could just sit with a bowl of
ice cream that would be magical and do
nothing and that you would be
cognitively optimized but sadly that is
not what nature has in store for us so
if you really want to get your mind
right you've got to focus on diet and
exercise as well then also many of you
know I grew up in a morbidly obese
family and I've seen firsthand the toll
on your just life and your ability to
enjoy it longevity everything what
happens when you're not in good health
and then also probably the biggest
driving force of launching the show if
I'm honest is my wife is going through
but it used to be literally a tragic
proportions going through digestive
issues and that was absolute madness all
right and so with that I promised that I
would learn all the [__] and help my
wife finally solved the problems she's
been struggling with it for three years
and for the first two it was pretty
brutal so finally I said look I'm just
gonna become an expert in this doctors
weren't helping even all the mad
scientists that we had a quest couldn't
get us out of the problem so ultimately
Ida buckle down learned stuff myself and
I thought oh my god I'm encountering all
these amazing people all these
incredible ideas are helping Lisa and by
the way Matt shoutout to impact Theory
alum and founder of volume and the Veen
Jane who's helped us so much with this I
cannot even begin to tell you so Naveen
you have my heart and you know that at
this point all right without further ado
Oh today's episode is brought to you by
the grid shirt my man thank you for
reminding me there we go grid it out
[__] no matter what your
problem is I'm telling you grit is the
answer unless it's microbiome then you
get a need grit and a whole lot of other
information
all right first question is from Robin
Batista this is via the connect inbox hi
Tom I'm 29 years old then and am barely
beginning to learn about growth mindset
and taking ownership I find myself
getting distraught about where I am in
life and question what I want to move
towards I feel so behind and find myself
getting angry over the choices I've made
and not having knowledge sooner I'm
afraid I'm too old to change what advice
do you have for me and how do I move out
of this space all right so first and
foremost before I answer that question I
sent you a question I think yesterday
okay cool so make sure we got that bad
boy queued up nice that one's next okay
so first of all beating yourself up over
not learning about the growth mindset
earlier isn't going to help you so the
most powerful part about a growth
mindset is realizing you can change at
any time and really understanding that
the only thing that matters is moving
forward and you're gonna do and believe
that which moves you towards your goal
and so if beating yourself up over that
is useful then do it but it's in small
percentages helpful but in large
quantities which it sounds like you're
succumbing to it is absolutely unhelpful
so because of that you can just let it
go now that's been really impactful for
me is understanding that I can let
myself off the hook for being stupid for
having made poor decisions for such a
terrifying amount of time which I didn't
find a growth mindset until I was 27 you
said you're 29 yeah so we're only two
years apart and assuming that I didn't
find it on day one of my 27th year which
it not that unfortunately and I thought
it was 26 my wife broke my heart the
other day when we actually ran the math
and I realized it was 27 so yeah I get
it I you know even just in what I said
now it is heartbreaking that it took me
that long but I say it with a laugh I
say it with a smile it's the only way
move forward just focus on the future
and a little game I play with myself is
I like to imagine that literally right
now this moment I just woke up out of
the matrix and everything else leading
up to this moment are false memories
implanted just to give me context so
that the AI of my brain can make
decisions if that were true then that
would free me up to choose what to
believe because all of its
fake anyway and I can just believe what
I want and then that's going to set me
up and I'm gonna choose to believe
things that empowered me and so that
sets me up for a success now obviously I
don't actually believe that but it
reminds me that while what happened in
my past is what happened that you can
choose what to focus on and how to
perceive of it so like Tony Robbins says
stop asking how the worst thing that
ever happened to you is destroying your
life and start asking how it's actually
the best thing that ever happened to you
and if you take that frame of reference
you'll actually find that there is
something to it that's powerful that's
empowering that's positive that you can
take out of that so there it is alright
next question is from Darsh this is also
from the connect inbox I have an extreme
daily routine where I wake up early 2:30
a.m. and take cold showers by 3:30 a.m.
I'm studying for upcoming exams and I've
done this routine for run two months and
a beginning to get fed up with it also
grades haven't improved much from where
they were before my extreme routine some
parents think it holds no value what can
I do in order to carry on this rather
brutal process without getting fed up
and continue to love learning and I
think the answer is you don't so here's
the great news your parents are right
and this is really not gonna be fun for
you to admit especially if you're a
teenager which I don't think you say one
way or the other but I get that feeling
so you're not gonna like admitting that
your parents are right but it sounds
like they are right and it doesn't sound
like your routine is holding much value
if it's not improving your grades and it
sucks then doesn't seem like there's a
lot going on now there's a lot to be
said for discipline and having that
discipline in your life but I will tell
you right now the most important thing
to having discipline you ready for this
is to actually give a [__] about the
thing you're fighting for so if you were
like I've got to get good grades and I
really want to get into the college and
I'm willing to do anything and
everything to do that because I want to
be a doctor or whatever and it really
requires that I get that degree and so I
want to go to a certain university great
okay if we're amped up about that and
you love that fantastic
but the getting up early the brutal
routine the cold showers all of that is
but a path to what you really want and
what you're seeing is it's not improving
your grades you're not having a good
time at it so there's no reason to do it
so I want to be really [__] clear
somebody
other day and I loved this they said
that I'm the bridge between Jocko
willing and Jason Silva I'd love to sit
at that intersection that would be
amazing but I'm not about beating myself
up just for the sake of beating myself
up now doing hard things like I'm deeply
I'm definitely doing a three-day fast
and I'm contemplating a five I'm gonna
look at Chase for this one eat you down
for a five all right so we may do a five
I'm not I'm not prepared not prepared to
commit to it yet I know better than that
but I've spent the last few showers
really thinking about the amazing
results that come out of doing things
that are very hard so there is something
to get from that but if you're finding
that it's just chipping away at you and
that it's not adding to your life what
you hoped it would then switch it up try
something else don't be afraid of that
all right so yeah with all things don't
be dogmatic all right next question is
from George Griffith this is Facebook
how often do you feel unmotivated with
your production company do you ever feel
like it isn't going to go where you want
it to the amount of time that I spend
there is not a lot I don't spend a lot
of time feeling unmotivated but I
definitely have moments where I'm like
whoa is what I'm doing right now
actually going to take me where I want
to go
it's really [__] rare that I allow
myself to even momentarily contemplated
not working at all but I stay ruthlessly
at whether or not the approach that I'm
taking the path that I'm using right now
is the right path and so we just last
week I was in New York I was meeting
with the former head of one of the major
comic book companies and literally I
said there are two questions that I have
over the next two days we've spent two
days together question one why am I
going to fail and then question two
how do i guarantee that I succeed now I
wanted to start with why I'm gonna fail
I wanted to really internalize how the
path that I was on wasn't going to be
the path that's gonna work and when you
can really hunger for that when you can
really want that then suddenly even if
you're spending time there and you're
thinking wow this isn't working
you're just looking for ways to change
you're looking for ways to increase your
odds as something that's gonna happen
now one thing that I just know true to
life is this the struggle is guaranteed
success is not so
don't get overly focused on like wanting
the success and fantasizing about the
success it has its place there's no
question but if that's your primary
driver it's not gonna be fun
I've lived that nightmare if on the
other hand that's hey one of the things
you lean on and I used to go drive
around Bel Air and here where I live now
and look at like the big beautiful
houses in Beverly Hills and say one day
I want that and it was very very
motivating for me but then I went
through a period where all I was
thinking about was the financial success
and that was a total [__] disaster
so I had to find that thing in the
moment if the struggle is the only thing
that's guaranteed how can I fall in love
with that know if you can fall in love
with that even when you have those moans
were you like wow this really may not
work it's like hey that's fine whether
it plays out that way or not is somewhat
irrelevant I love the process I love
what I'm learning I love getting better
the actual act of getting better and
improving trying to solve the business
problems all of that and then motivation
again it just comes back to do you love
that thought of what you're trying to do
now remember the thing that I love the
thought of isn't so much the studio
although that is very exciting for me
the thing that is worth me betting my
fortune on is pulling people out of the
matrix that for me is the thing that
amps me up the most that I could do so
when you find that thing that's gonna be
the thing that pulls you through those
unmotivated moments so if you're having
a lot of them and if you're living in
that one of two things is true either
you're not very excited about the thing
that you want and so those little grains
that doubt just grab ahold of you and
and drag you down or you need to ask
yourself the fundamental questions which
will reveal the way that you think about
the world so I don't have them memorize
it really should memorize them but I do
have them written down I don't remember
where we last posted them we should turn
these into a blog article they'll
definitely be in the book but it's
basically stuff like this the following
two things are often attributed to
Einstein though they may not actually be
but I don't care they're [__] awesome
regardless Susie said it number one ask
yourself do you live in a friendly or a
hostile universe it's your choice you
get to choose neither is objectively
true but they're really going to
influence how you see the world now I
think I live in a friendly universe
which means things aren't working
against me that any of the puzzles
before me from a business perspective
are very solvable so there's no reason
I can't be the one to solve them and
then the other question is let's see if
I can remember this also from Einstein
nope it's not coming quickly so anyway
there's four questions like that that
are designed to get to the whole notion
of glass half full glass half empty and
if you can realize that you get to
decide that you get to choose that you
get to reinforce those things in your
mind you can choose to believe that
things are working for you you can
choose to live in positivity you can
choose to be optimistic and from that
position I think you'll find that the
fears of things not working out begin to
diminish over time okay next is from
Hesse Williams is on Facebook how do you
respond when the matrix tries to draw
you back in okay so this doesn't really
happen to me a lot anymore but it used
to happen to me all the time and the way
that I would respond is to understand
that I needed to strengthen my belief
system ok the belief system is
everything like that drives everything
it drives a way that you perceive the
world and if you focus your time and
attention on solidifying that and I'm
really want to create an animated that's
not the right word an illustrated like
you get in the seatback pocket of an
airline that shows you how to escape in
an emergency I want to drive home the
following two things for people these
are the two core tenants of developing a
growth mindset like literally the
tactics number one what you repeat in
your head what you think about will
manifest in the wiring of your brain
those thoughts will become easier and
you will think them more rapidly and
more frequently so it becomes a
self-reinforcing cycle whatever it is
you think about positive or negative it
is gonna wire in your brain through a
process called myelination where fatty
tissue is wrapped around the connection
points between your neurons the
electrical impulse can travel faster the
brain always wants to do what's easier
and since thinking in that network then
becomes easier due to the myelination
process you just find yourself in those
loops over and over and over okay the
second thing is what you say out loud
then is in a similar way going to create
congruence for you and you're gonna act
in accordance with that it's what other
people expect of you it's what you
expect of yourself
so between what you think over and over
and over which becomes very easy and
then what you say which you'll want to
act in congruence with that those two
things determine your life
so really leveraging that in order to
stay out of the matrix in order to
reinforce your positive belief system
that's what you're gonna lean on that's
certainly what I leaned on and now
because I've done that so much so much
so much that even when negative ideas
try to come into my head they encounter
a thousand different positive jujitsu
moves that end up forcing that thought
to become positive so the way that I
explained it if you want to look up a
pachinko machine I think it's paci PA CH
ICAO and kayo
something like that anyway it'll pop up
if you get close enough and it that
image it had to have all these metal
rods and so there's a place to drop like
a ball or a coin or something at the top
and then it bounces around those metal
things and then ultimately gets taken
out or shoot so the way that I think
about it is the ball is that negative
impulse and all the metal rods that it's
bouncing on are the positive beliefs
that I have that the ball has to
encounter and then the final place that
those positive things move the ball
towards is action and ultimately you
want to take action that's positive in
nature that is going to move you towards
what you want alright next quite and
it's pachinko PA CH i NK o Thank You
Shaw's much obliged all right next
question is from Sarbjit of that one
that one tested me not gonna lie why do
so many people feel they are behind in
whatever they are achieving there must
be some reason can you give us some
small explanation please so I don't know
but you follow my logic our brain is
meant to keep us safe and in all of that
one of the mechanisms that it uses is
basically self flagellation so hey dummy
you did that thing why'd you do that
thing you shouldn't do that again like
you should just cower in the corner over
here because it's better to be on the
bottom and safe than be on the top and
at risk now some collateral damage to
that is we tend to just sell flagellate
about virtually everything we're not
good enough we're not worthy we compare
ourselves to others so that we know
where we fit in the hierarchy which is
terrifyingly deeply ingrained in us so
understanding that your brain is at all
times trying to figure out where you sit
the hierarchy in order to keep you safe
you can see how your brain is airing on
the side of making sure that you don't
try to climb too far too fast to put
yourself at risk to overstep where you
are in the hierarchy and put your risk
of being ejected from the group okay so
if that's what our brain is trying to do
then you can imagine how you just start
saying negative [__] to yourself even
when it's not about that so when you get
to something like oh my god I didn't do
this fast enough that your default is
still just to beat yourself up so you're
gonna have to train yourself out of that
process it's very simple it's not easy
it takes time but it is very simple and
it just comes from literal affirmations
and reminding yourself that that doesn't
matter reminding yourself that you're
only gonna believe and do that which
moves you towards your goals reminding
yourself that it doesn't matter who you
are today it only matters who you're
willing to become the price you'll need
to pay to get there on and on and on if
you want more of them go right now to
impact Theory comm and download the 25
point belief system those are the 25
things that I just reinforced in my mind
all right next question is from Natalia
Telesis from Facebook it's no secret
that the American education system is
outdated what sorts of things do you
think should be incorporated to the
education of today's children what
concepts or courses do you think are
obsolete and can be completely removed
okay
well I'm not an expert on this but
follow my logic and if you agree
fantastic anything that involves rote
memorization just does not make sense in
a world where you have a supercomputer
in your pocket and like chase did with
pachenko you can look something up
instantly
nobody really values you for your
ability to remember facts and figures
like that if you can just look them up
so anything around that I think you can
just disregard anything on the other
hand that's focused on problem solving
on thinking creatively on building an
empowering mindset those are the things
that I think we either need to focus
more on if they're already there or
really inject into the system if they're
not nobody taught me how to think in
high school or grade school or middle
school to terrifying consequence and so
if we were baking that into the
education system I think that people
would be way better off because it's at
the foundation level and anything that
we can do to teach people how to think
in an empowering
how to learn in an efficient manner
things like that are gonna be really
really empowering and then also just
being able to problem-solve which I
think a lot of people don't realize how
many problems they actually can solve
and that was somebody took me a long
time to have faith in myself to believe
in the process to understand how you go
about learning about something and then
actually executing taking action that
those are the only things that matter
that momentum matters literally in fact
here's what they should do they should
take my youtube videos and my Instagram
feed and they should just make that
standard curriculum that's my answer
there you go
cuz those are all the things that I wish
I'd learned all right next up is Jacque
Botha YouTube
hi Tom I'm a nice guy who if you've ever
heard of our forward slash our forward
slash nice guys that would terrify you
with all the nice guy tendencies and
find that people talk over me in group
conversations how do I make myself heard
without being an [__]
shaaka
you ready what's the the woman in the
matrix says I hate giving good people
bad news the Oracle the reality is if
people are talking over you chances are
that what you're saying just isn't that
interesting and that's the cold hard
truth and so rather than focusing on
techniques in groups I would really
focus on for your own sake just because
you love it go dive into something that
you dig and learn about it and get
really good at it and then if it's
meaningful to you which I don't
necessarily know that it should be but
if it's meaningful to you to be able to
perform in social situations you can do
everything from very mild practice at
that to very extreme practice at that
like going to a group like can't believe
I'm blanking on the name of this say it
again yes thank you Cindy
coming through Toastmasters which will
let you get up and give speeches and
practice that kind of thing and it is
very much a learning skill but I would
say first and foremost the real thing is
to make sure that you've got
interesting things in your arsenal to
say that people really want to hear
about and that those are by the way two
different things there could be things
you're really interested in but people
don't give a [__] about like comics for
instance I really want to talk about
comics a lot in this feed and I don't
because I know that most people are
interested and by the way I really want
you guys as opinion on this do you guys
know about Bureau so we're debating
internally on V row I'm because my
Instagram feed my Facebook feed my
YouTube feed all already are geared
towards mindset straight up like you
know where to go if you want that stuff
now on the other hand what we're
building with impact theory studios is
all about showing people how they can
extract usable information through
narrative so whether that's a comic book
a TV show movie videogames whatever
anything that houses a narrative I think
there are a lot of incredibly powerful
lessons that are only accessible when
told in an emotive way so that's why I'm
obsessed with that so I'm thinking about
on V row doing a feed that's entirely
around that things that I'm reading what
we're working on from a comic book
standpoint movies that kind of stuff so
be very curious to know if that would be
interesting I get it to a very small
subset of you a and B or if B people
would rather another outlet for the
exact same stuff because right about now
it would be copy and paste from IG under
Bureau so anyway I want your feedback on
that
so Jacque that was an aside on how I
know not to just go full-blown on comics
I know why people are showing up here to
this feed and so I tailored my comments
to that and then the last thing I'll say
on this which I probably should have
said first because it's actually the
most important if you want to be
interesting be interested ask a lot of
questions find out more about people
learn about them if you look at my style
of interviewing I went from not existing
and everybody telling me that I would
never be able to build the show to
building the show growing very rapidly
and getting just incredible incredible
human beings on the show by asking a
better caliber of question and the way
that I do that is simply by learning
more about that person in those topics
than most people are gonna put in the
effort to learn so in knowing a lot
about it the thing it actually empowers
you to do is ask better questions and
engage with people people love talking
about
so the more that you can engage them
that way I think you'll find that people
then start gravitating towards you one
of the most powerful tools as a social
animal is to understand if you can make
other people feel better about
themselves when they're around you then
they want to be around you and that man
that is like the Sun the Yellow Sun the
Superman just to sneak in a comic-book
reference so get after that I think
you'll find it very very useful all
right next question is from Dana and
Anthony Mott this is on Facebook
I finished principals by Ray Dalio nice
I have an organization slightly
different than a traditional structure
how did you initially introduce the
concepts to your team what obstacles did
you face I want to implement the right
way okay so I don't consider myself an
expert on implementing this because
we're still in the process of doing it
but it looked like this I started
reading the book at Chase's
recommendation who by the way what's
your IG feed J cap CH a whi CH a YC aap
he's gonna start talking about the books
that he's reading on his Instagram feed
I highly encourage you guys to follow
him he right now of all the human beings
on the [__] planet Earth no one
recommends more books that I then
actually go on to read then chase so I'm
telling you there's something about
where he's at in his journey in life I
don't know what it is he's got his
finger on some pulse but he told me to
read principles he bugged me about it
forever and this was at a phase when I
was still ignoring his book
recommendations and then finally I read
it it was so [__] good that I was
like whatever this kid tells me to read
I'm gonna read and he's just been an
insane wealth of information okay so
anyway I read principals changes my life
I come in and I tell people hey I'm
reading this book it's really freaking
me out
it's so [__] good and it made me feel
badly about myself because it was so
well written and I was just talking
about it obsessively and as I started
getting deeper into the book and by the
way this is all part of the strategy to
share it with people to give them early
information to let them know what I'm
thinking so I'm not just surprising them
one day with a new like you know 86 page
workbook whatever the [__] they call
those sayings manual for the company and
saying this is how we are now it was
walking them through my thinking telling
them why the book was hitting me so hard
what it was about it that I thought was
really gonna be amazing being super
vulnerable about how I hadn't used it at
Quest and I thought that it really
caused problems culturally and that I
used to really pride myself on the kind
of culture that I was able to build and
then realizing that it was fine it was
actually awesome when we were really
small and it was absolute garbage as we
got bigger and so all of that was my
fault and the answers all lie within
that book and so I'm telling them all of
this stuff and then finally I said look
we are gonna be implementing this in the
company I believe in it that strongly
and so it's required reading I need
everybody to read the book and I gave
them since I had started talking about
is probably six weeks before we finally
met and discussed it but I gave them
originally two weeks and then at the two
week mark we realized people needed more
time so we extended it to an additional
two weeks so people had about four weeks
to read the book and then we had a big
meeting where in true principals fashion
we had everybody talk about what they
liked what they didn't like what scared
them what they were amped up about all
that and then we've since started
implementing it so things like the
errorlog was a pretty cool way to get
people to start engaging with principals
because they got to see firsthand I was
the first person to put an entry in to
say I'd mess something up and there it
was for everyone to see
and then as other people started
entering things in the error log and
they saw hey I didn't get fired and I
admitted something you know that I
messed up and it was pretty bad or
whatever and we talked about what are we
gonna learn from that and all of that
and then just reinforcing it and having
those painful sometimes super awkward
conversations that slow meetings down
but showing that principals are a
priority that people can criticize from
the bottom up from the top down
side-to-side whatever all right I can
feel that I could do an entire episode
on that I'm gonna stop there but yeah
I'd like to think there are other people
talking about implementation online I
don't know that but it'd be really
interesting if you do the work for both
of us and find out if that's true and
then ping me and let me know if there
are because I'd like to learn as well
but that's what I've been doing so far
okay next question is from crafty beyond
YouTube Tom I'm a lazy ass but I'm deaf
but I desperately want to have self
discipline how can
start to build up self-discipline and
how can I keep it up and now go back to
my lazy tendencies okay the only thing
that matters in all of this is do you
actually want the pot of gold at the end
of the rainbow and what is that pot of
gold at the end of the rainbow so you
need to know very clearly what your
goals are that goal needs to be
something that you really really like
and it can't just be I don't want to be
lazy it can't just be I want to have
discipline so discipline is just a tool
laziness I think is most people's
default state remember that
energetically as the species were way
better off conserving our energy than
expending expending it unless we're
expending it in service of something so
if you're running after a gazelle or
whatever to take it down okay cool
that's gonna make a lot of sense because
you're gonna eat but for the most part
like most of us like to just sit around
and that's why in our modern
conveniences it becomes really
problematic because people don't
necessarily enjoy going out and doing a
hard labor or hard things you get some
people to get endorphin releases from
running and stuff like that I'm not one
of them so I can't speak to that but
understanding that neither of those
things are the thing in and of
themselves so the laziness sense of what
we just talked about and then the the
discipline is meant to be the thing that
gets you to something that you really
care deeply about so identifying that
thing you care deeply about that is step
one now assuming that that thing gives
you more energy than it takes away then
all of a sudden the discipline really
becomes about tactics far more than it
becomes about how do I do this how do I
keep this up how do I make sure that I
don't slide back I think people slide
back because they don't care about the
thing that they're chasing they tried to
pretend and tell people that they did
but in reality they're not being honest
with themselves which i think is a
pandemic that people aren't honest with
themselves about what they like now
those are the easy ones to understand
now on to my personal like pet obsession
and I want to make this change in the
world you want to talk about one very
specific impact that I want to have on
the world I want to teach people how to
fan the flames of interest to turn them
into raging inferno as a passion passion
is not hiding inside of you if you don't
feel it's because it's not there you
have to create it now you create it from
something real that spark of interest
but don't ever expect your intuition to
do anything more than whisper to you
don't expect
of interest to be like a lightning rod
and suddenly it's this deep passion it's
gonna be something that you're like whoa
I like that it's kind of cool I like
being around it I like the imagery the
people that whatever there's something
that draws you into that world go engage
with it find out if it turns into a real
fascination if it does and you find Wow
like I really enjoy this I lose track of
time there's a lot of fun then you're
gonna go down the process of gaining
mastery and in the process of gaining
mastery and fanning those flames of
interest telling people how much you
like it and this is the one people miss
embodying that excitement like I do
during an AMA I embody my excitement to
remind myself how much I like serving
this community okay I do that on purpose
I modulate my physicality I modulate my
voice I do all of that so that I really
actually feel the passion remember the
physical hooks into something work into
getting into your mind as much as
getting into your mind then creates
physicality okay those are really
important things to understand so once
you start doing that you know how to fan
those flames then all of the sudden the
discipline just becomes tactical and
then you can use things like bright
lines and rules like I get out of bed in
ten minutes or less simple as the first
thing I do is work out simple as so it's
like you just start putting these rules
in place and then telling people what
you do making your identity known to not
only yourself but to other people so
that you have congruence working for you
all right next question
Jose Gabriel Gonzalez this is from
Facebook Tom how did your life's mission
evolve over time to the point at which
it is now did you just wake up one day
with the idea of building a studio that
would get people out of the matrix or
did you slowly polish the idea over time
how did the process look for you okay so
definitely was not a lightning rod
moment when I was 12 I thought I wanted
to be a filmmaker I was gung ho for that
I loved it
I poured my energy into it I tried to
get good at it all the things I just
walked you guys through and I found that
the more that I did it the more I
enjoyed it so I went to film school I
graduated film school that's a long
story but I graduated film school
feeling very frustrated I don't know how
to break into the industry I feel
completely lost
then people introduced me to the idea
that if I want to control my art I have
to control my resources now in this time
I bigbrother for this kid in South
Central Los Angeles and later he moved
to Compton
and seeing that kind of horrifying world
I realized whoa like this kid's life is
dramatically different simply because of
where he grew up he's no less
intelligent than I am but he perceives
the world so radically different than me
so that plans to seed then I start quest
as a way to get wealthy control the
resources help people that's a long
story I'm actually doing a terrible job
of summarizing that but anyway we start
quest and we end up having about 1400
employees and the vast majority of them
grew up in the inner cities and reminded
me of the kid that I used to bigbrother
for and I realized whoa their lives are
gonna be radically different not because
I'm smarter but because I perceive the
world differently I have a different
belief system and because of that I do
different things with my life I take
different actions and that really
freaked me out
I did not like in any way shape or form
and so I started thinking okay if quest
was my answer to how do you at scale get
people healthy you create food that they
choose based on taste and it happens to
be good for them rather than telling
them to eat less and exercise more which
doesn't work what would that solution be
to at scale give people that belief
system and I realized whoa all of my
training and all of my love and passion
for filmmaking may come back into play
here and so as I looked at that problem
and thought what's the no [__]
answer to transmitting belief system at
scale at a level that actually impacts
culture and the only thing I can
believably conceive of is given where
the world is with the way that media is
today social media and traditional that
it was ripe for this moment for somebody
to come in and use social content to
preach to the choir and then use
traditional content to preach to people
who are all the way to being
antagonistic towards change and over
generations I think that these ideas
will seep into the culture and I think
that that's incredibly powerful so that
that's how I came to that now it also
happens that that initial feeling that I
had for helping people which I love it
gives me so much energy and so you put
all that together and it just made a lot
of sense but it was not overnight there
were multiple times where for you to ask
me I would have said I had a completely
different passion and mission so
there you have it Amanda Kofi this is
Facebook I'm having concerns with
positive thinking and affirmations so
I'm in the process of changing my
thoughts to positive ones I found myself
worried about some music I listen to
example bad at love lyric can music
cross over to our subconscious thoughts
not only can it it's probably one of the
most potent ways because it's a motive
so going back to what I was just saying
about why I think that narrative is so
powerful is it grabs us at the limbic
level the emotional level and can really
transmit things subconsciously things
you're not even thinking about
assimilating into your life that's why I
say that it works with people who are
even antagonistic towards taking that in
so a hundred percent now that doesn't
mean that like I only listen to music if
it's positive but I'm not afraid to
listen music that isn't positive if it's
really catchy because I have so many
mechanisms in place to make sure that I
don't adopt that as my belief system but
if in the beginning you're struggling
with it yeah like just aim yourself at
stuff that's empowering and positive it
will only help but I would be lying if I
said I didn't take in a broad swath of
stuff but like I was talking about
earlier with veero the team was asking
me well would you just talk about every
comic book you read and i said no i
would stay totally on brand with mindset
and empowerment i would only talk about
those things but just by way of full
disclosure i take in all kinds of stuff
but like with impact theory studios
which by the way for anybody out there
who ever watches movie reviews TV
reviews any of that stuff if you are
interested in the intersection of
empowerment in pop culture go to
youtube.com forward slash impact theory
studios we have a show right now it's
our first of what will hopefully be many
shows called real impact where we break
down movies and TV shows that have
awesome mindset angles so yeah that was
a long way of saying if it's [__]
with you then just do positivity that
certainly won't hurt alright next up
will colette face book our unit likes to
solve problems with meetings i'm in at
least one a day and they take at least
an hour i hate them what's your advice
to get rid of these they often don't
result in productive action and solve
problems another way okay so i have a
very complicated relationship with
meeting
I hate the vast majority of meetings but
some meetings are very much critical and
the team needs to understand where
everybody is you need to be able to
communicate things that get people
moving and I think the key to making
sure that a meeting is useful is making
sure that you have action items making
sure that there's a thesis this meeting
is meant to do this and we're going to
cover this we expect these people to
have this prepared and then at the end
of the meeting to summarize everything
up and say this is what we've learned
and these the action items now go if you
don't leave a meeting saying these the
action items now go then chances are
that the meeting only at best
communicated directional ideas but it is
not going to help people create momentum
so you have to be very very very careful
with that so that is my only advice now
I wake up in a cold sweat sometimes at
the thought of working in an
organization somewhere in middle
management where I have ideas like about
Ray dahlias principles but I'm in an
organization where they're not going to
listen to me that's terrifying
I have possible solutions to that but I
don't want to [__] people I know how
lame that would be that's why I highly
encourage people to interview the job as
much as the job is interviewing you
before you take on a position because I
can think of nothing that will rob you
of your joy in life your actual will to
live more rapidly than spending more
than 50% of your waking hours in a job
you hate and also can I flip it for a
second as an employer
it [__] drives me nuts that people
just come in and hate their job silently
that also was a crime against humanity
so we've got crimes on both sides if
you're creating an environment where
people can't thrive crime and if you're
in an environment and not [__]
speaking up and staying there and being
a subversive [__] also a crime so
work for an organization that has
principles so that if you hate your job
that you're not beating up for saying
something and for presenting ideas on
how to change it I want if people hate
their job here I want to know because I
need people that are thriving anyway the
most selfish saying that somebody can do
as a boss is create an environment where
people can thrive all right the rhone
Graham Thom with that exclamation with
all the books you read how do you
balance between implementing the
principles and getting bogged down with
analysis paralysis okay
so I have a hard and fast rule the only
thing that matters is action the only
thing that matters is creating momentum
and this pisses my team off sometimes
and one point of collision for my wife
and I is I give up [__] about momentum
she's a little more protective hedging
the downside which is actually good to
have in an organization but at the same
time I'm telling you right now at the
beginning the only thing that matters is
taking action so I'm not reading a book
to read it I'm reading a book to take
something out of it and act immediately
so from the time that I read principles
in fact I started telling people we were
implementing principles before I
finished the [__] book because it was
that good
so I'm always looking for ways to take
action so take action my friends when
you read something act on it as
immediately and grandly as humanly
possible a manual vetrini
face book hi Tom I have a passion for
musical composition and I find really
hard to picture a future where my
passion will allow me to make money I
need to live how would you handle this
situation so it really comes down to are
you being honest with what you need to
make in order to live or is there a
certain amount of money that's just more
important to you so the way that I break
this down for people you've got the Tony
Hawk principle on one hand which as long
as you're doing you're able to eat doing
the thing that you love you've already
won that is success okay and he said the
only reason that he went on to be as
successful as he was is in the dearth of
like the late 80s early 90s when no one
gave a [__] about skateboarding there
was no money to be made and he was
making just enough to feed himself off
of Taco Bell and sandwiches by
skateboarding in the parking lot of Six
Flags he came out the other side because
he was so into it he loved it so much
that he just kept progressing when
everybody else gave up on the sport so
when the sport came back he was the only
one that had been skating consistently
so of course he was way farther ahead
than everybody else who had stopped and
given up because it couldn't make enough
money to survive he just downregulated
what enough money meant because he loved
it that much so that's something you
have to answer for yourself nobody can
answer that for you
now if on the other hand you like hey
there's a certain amount of money
there's a certain quality of life that I
would like to be accustomed to then just
be honest where are the overlaps between
your passion what you love and what you
can get paid to do with the world values
find that overlap and
right exist right in that thing or do
what I call universe of so maybe you
want to be a soccer player but you're
just not good enough to make a living at
it well you can go and be a ref you
could go and be a coach you could be an
analyst you could be a journalist write
about sports so there's a thousand ways
to be in that universe even if you can't
be the player that you want to be so
those are my answers to that all right
next up David Gomez from Facebook Tom
how to manage returning to the habit of
going to bed early considering I go out
at night every other Friday I think
there's something in the question that
I'm supposed to get that I don't get so
if you're going on a fried and you're
saying that that's [__] up your whole
routine then I would say that you can't
except weakness from yourself that just
sounds super wussy to me so even so I
stay up late on the weekend so I stay up
late on Friday I stay up late on
Saturday and then I go to bed at my
normal time on Sunday like [__]
clockwork and if I had to I would just
set an alarm on Monday morning we should
make me or Sunday is way better I would
set an alarm on Sunday so that I make
sure that I'm tired when I need to go to
bed Sunday night so if you really just
want to party your ass off on Friday and
Saturday set an alarm on Sunday get your
ass out of bed this this is one of those
like either put rules in place so that
you do it or just admit that you don't
give a [__] about it but this is like
the easiest thing in the universe to
actually start doing if you care enough
about getting up early you're gonna go
to bed on time that's just that and I
think that the human sleep cycle is
flexible enough you could stay up late
on a Friday and a Saturday and still go
to bed on time on a Sunday but if it's
really hard for you then start doing
things like setting the alarm taking
melatonin there's all kinds of [__] you
could do alright so Lindsey shoots yeah
hey Tom I find myself feeling
intimidated by talking with others who
are more intellectual than I am despite
that I'm trying to pitch in where I can
knowing I can learn what is a good
question to ask others to learn from
them and open the door for almost
mentorship kinds of relationships so
kinds of discussion so my like go-to
question is what's your deepest passion
one it gets people's attention because
it catches them off guard they're not
used to people asking about that and two
if you really want to fight
with somebody knows about and loves and
is going to be willing to mentor start
getting them talking about something
that they're deeply passionate about
that is absolutely critical people love
talking about themselves and they love
talking about about the things that they
love so that is just one of the dead
simple simplest easy ways now if I can
give you a gift if you'd be so kind lean
in close and hear what I say don't worry
about looking stupid ever that is one of
the greatest superpowers I could give
you go into any conversation knowing
sure you're not as intellectual as
everybody else I will tell you right now
the thing that allowed me to break free
of being an employee and become an
employer and building companies was I
was so beyond fearless about looking
stupid and not because I was unaware of
it by the way I was hyper aware of the
sideways glances the chuckling behind my
back all of that and I just said I'm
never going to be held back by being
afraid to look stupid and so I would
charge in any conversation I wouldn't
try to take it over I wasn't an [__]
but like if I didn't understand
something I said I don't understand that
and I would push them and try to get
them to clarify things I would repeat it
back to them and see am I actually
understanding this and if I wasn't like
I would keep digging until I really got
it and I was never afraid to ask and
that's the key if you don't know don't
pretend that you know go in and ask but
ask knowing that those questions they
will reveal that you don't know
something they will be embarrassing and
people may in fact laugh at you but if
you keep going you're going to laugh
last of this I assure you because you
will have the knowledge and only the
people who aren't afraid to look stupid
accumulate enough knowledge to really
dominate later so look at yourself in a
long timeline that's critical part all
right we're at the end of today's AMA
guys thank you so much for joining me
and don't forget if you're at all
interested in optimizing cognitively we
have launched a new show called health
theory it's on YouTube check it out our
first episode drop today with the legend
Mark Sisson would love for you guys to
go there and by the way if you consider
yourself an impact of this I have one
ask be open-minded and positive that's
it be open-minded and positive I don't
want to get in fact I'll never [__]
debate you that's so uninteresting to me
I cannot begin to tell you how
uninterested I am in convincing people
that I know something what I am
interested in is learning and providing
people
tools that they can use so there is
something so [__] weird about exercise
diet nutrition it brings out a dogmatic
zealot Rhian people that drives me
bananas so one way you can support this
community would be to just go in be
positive or it's okay to be silent there
are many times where people come on the
show they say something that I totally
disagree with but I don't sit there and
debate them because it shuts them down
it makes them not want to talk it gets
so [__] weird so please guys one
thing that this community has been so
amazing there's been so much positivity
in the comments it's unlike anything
I've ever seen in my life I don't want
to see that change I think we've put
together a show that is incredibly
powerful be open-minded as Bruce Lee
said assimilate what works discard what
doesn't and add your own a hundred
percent so get after it
mad shout out to Lisa and Michelle
who've really made hell theory what it
is so if you follow either of them give
them a shout out show them some love if
you like the show I'm super proud of it
so go check it out hell theory on
YouTube all right guys thank you again
if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary
[Music]